TTYG-178 Improve documentation (#51)
Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval: docs/metrics.md

## Custom metrics

You can define your own metrics of target response records to be evaluated using an LLM. To do this, specify the metric name, inputs, outputs and instructions in a YAML file and pass the file path as a parameter to `run_evaluation()`. This will return your output metrics alongside the standard metrics described in previous sections.

One configuration file can define multiple custom evaluations, each of which will be done as a separate query to the LLM. Each evaluation can have multiple outputs. The format is shown in the example sections below.

See [§ Example configuration file with custom evaluation](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/config.md#example-configuration-file-with-custom-evaluations).

### Example call to evaluate using custom metrics

```python
evaluation_results = await run_evaluation(
    reference_qa_dataset, 
    chat_responses, 
    "my_project/eval_config_defining_custom_eval.yaml"
)
aggregates = compute_aggregates(
    evaluation_results,
    "my_project/eval_config_defining_custom_eval.yaml"
)
```

### Example output for custom SPARQL evaluation

> With the [custom SPARQL evaluation](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/config.md#example-configuration-file-with-custom-evaluations), the output is as for [§ Example evaluation results](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/examples/output.yaml), except that it has the following additional keys and example values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the [custom evaluation metrics](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/config.md#example-configuration-file-with-custom-evaluations), the output is as for [§ Example evaluation results](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/examples/output.yaml), except that it has the following additional keys and example values:
```

Author: Changed link title to 'example custom metrics configuration'.

```yaml
  my_answer_relevance: 0.9

>   my_answer_relevance_eval_reason: The answer contains relevant information except for the sentence about total revenue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  my_answer_relevance_reason: The answer contains relevant information except for the sentence about total revenue
```

Author: Applied

  sparql_recall: 0.75
  sparql_precision: 0.6

>   sparql_eval_reason: The reference answer has 4 claims; there are 5 SPARQL results; 3 claims match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sparql_reason: The reference answer has 4 claims; there are 5 SPARQL results; 3 claims match
```

Author: Applied

```

### Output in case of evaluation error

If there is an error during evaluation:
- The configured output keys will have value `null`
- There will be an additional key explaining the error. The key will be `{name}_error` where `name` is the custom evaluation name.

There are three types of error:
1. The reference item is missing keys requested in the custom evaluation configuration.
  - Example: `custom_1_error: Reference missing key 'reference_steps'`
1. The target response record is missing keys requested in the custom evaluation configuration.
  - Example: `custom_1_error: Actual output missing 'actual_steps'`
1. The evaluating LLM output does not conform to the custom evaluation configuration.

>   - Example: `custom_1_error: "Expected 6 tab-separated values, got: 0.1\tCustom answer reason"`

Reviewer: All items are numbered with 1

<img width="964" height="288" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f0212b59-2f9d-4f48-afeb-deb0a1701297" />
instead they should be numbered as 1., 2. and 3.

Author: Fixed

# Metrics

> The library computes metrics for the quality of the answers. The groups of possible metrics are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The quality of the answers is evaluated by computing the following groups of metrics:
```

Author: Done

> 1. **[RAGAS answer relevance](https://docs.ragas.io/en/v0.4.3/concepts/metrics/available_metrics/answer_relevance/)** (`answer_relevance`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **[RAGAS Answer Relevancy](https://docs.ragas.io/en/v0.4.3/concepts/metrics/available_metrics/answer_relevance/)** (`answer_relevance`)
```

Author: I much prefer words in the dictionary.

> 1. **Answer correctness**: Recall, precision, F1 of claims extracted from the actual answer with respect to reference answer claims (`answer_recall`, `answer_precision`, `answer_f1`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Answer Correctness**: _Recall_, _Precision_ and _F1-measure_ of the claims extracted from the actual answer with respect to the reference answer claims. The actual and reference answers are broken down to sets of claims by the LLM, then the actual claims are matched agains the reference ones with the help of the LLM again. Based on the number of matching claims _Recall_, _Precision_ and _F1-measure_ are calculated (`answer_recall`, `answer_precision`, `answer_f1`).
```

Author: Applied some ideas of rewording. Rejected capitalization (consistent with rest of docs), italicization (consistent with rest of list); exact wording (repeated metrics names).

1. **Steps score**: Correctness of the agent's steps in responding to a user query (`steps_score`) ([§ Steps score](https://github.com/Ontotext-AD/graphrag-eval/blob/main/docs/steps.md#steps-score))

> 1. Vector retrieval

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. For steps with name "retrieval"
```

>     1. **vs. reference answer**: Recall, precision, F1 of the retrieved context claims with respect to the reference answer claims (`retrieval_answer_recall`, `retrieval_answer_precision`, `retrieval_answer_f1`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. **vs. reference answer**: Recall, precision, F1 of the retrieved context claims with respect to the reference answer claims (`retrieval_answer_recall`, `retrieval_answer_precision`, `retrieval_answer_f1`)
```

Author: "Reference answer" should not be under "steps score"

>     1. **vs. reference context**: Recall, precision, F1 of the retrieved context claims with respect to the reference context claims (`retrieval_context_recall`, `retrieval_context_precision`, `retrieval_context_f1`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. **vs. reference context**: Recall, precision, F1 of the retrieved context claims with respect to the reference context claims (`retrieval_context_recall`, `retrieval_context_precision`, `retrieval_context_f1`)
```

Author: "Reference context" should not be under "steps score"

# Metrics

The library computes metrics for the quality of the answers. The groups of
possible metrics are:

> 1. `answer_relevance`

Reviewer: I find it strange that here we don't give the definition of this metric, instead we define it in the output.md file. This is inconsistent with the `steps_score` for example. The same applies to the metrics for answer correctness, retrieval quality using the reference answer, and retrieval quality using a reference context

Author: It makes sense to define them in the Metrics section, but duplicating it in Output complicates maintenance. I see these options:
- Make Metrics informal (by replacing metrics keys "`answer_relevance`" etc, by words "answer relevance", etc.) and link specifically to each key definition
- Duplicate the definitions in both Metrics and Output
- Move the metric definitions from Output to Metrics

Which is best?

Reviewer: I think we should define them in the metrics section, and remove the definitions from the Output, but not the keys. As I already said I think the Metrics section should list the metrics computed by the library. They are the core functionality. In Output we define how are these metrics represented in the output only. IMO this is necessary, because in the Output we copy from the reference Q&A dataset and from the Target dataset, so we end up with a lot of keys, and the user looses the focus, and what actually the library does. 

N.B. Currently, in the output we copy stuff from the input to make it easier for analysis, but in the future we may decide to only output what the library computes, to make for example the responses smaller in size. Then we can have only one file defining the metrics.

Author: Done

1. Metrics of answer correctness
   1. `answer_recall`
   1. `answer_precision`
   1. `answer_f1`
1. `steps_score`: an overall metric of the correctness of the steps the chat
bot or agent executed in response to the user's query (see section [Steps score](steps-score.md))
1. Metrics of vector retrieval quality, computed for reference retrieval steps
   matched with actual retrieval steps
    1. Retrieval quality using the reference answer 
        1. `retrieval_answer_recall`
        1. `retrieval_answer_precision`
        1. `retrieval_answer_f1`
    1. Retrieval quality using a reference context
        1. `retrieval_context_recall`
        1. `retrieval_context_precision`
        1. `retrieval_context_f1`
    1. Retrieval quality using chunk IDs (section [Retrieval evaluation using chunk IDs](retrieval-evaluation-using-chunk-ids.md))

> 1. Aggregates min, max, sum, mean, median of the above metrics (section [Aggregates keys](output.md#aggregate-keys))

Reviewer: there is no section `aggregate-keys` in output.md

Author: Fixed, thanks! I should check all links before I request a review!
